Changes
MANIFEST
Makefile.PL
README
bin/SOAPsh.pl			SOAP shell
bin/XMLRPCsh.pl			XMLRPC shell
bin/stubmaker.pl		Script for creating stubs from schema description
examples/COM/README		Examples and description for COM interface
examples/COM/SOAP-Lite-COM-minimal.ctrl
examples/COM/SOAP-Lite-COM-standalone.ctrl
examples/COM/hash.vbs		Example in VBScript, hash manipulation
examples/COM/hashecho.vbs
examples/COM/local.vbs		Example in VBScript, client for local service
examples/COM/make-com-minimal.bat
examples/COM/make-com-standalone.bat
examples/COM/remote.cs		Example in C#, client for remote service
examples/COM/remote.vba
examples/COM/remote.vbs		Example in VB, client for remote service
examples/COM/remote.xls
examples/COM/service.vbs	Example in VB, client with WSDL
examples/COM/soap.asp		SOAP server, ASP/VBScript implementation
examples/COM/soap.vbs		SOAP server, VB/Daemon implementation
examples/COM/soap_perl.asp	SOAP server, ASP/PerlScript implementation
examples/COM/states.html	Example in JavaScript, client for local service
examples/COM/states.pl		Example in Perl, client for local service
examples/COM/states.vba		Source code for macroses in states.xls
examples/COM/states.vbs		Example in VBScript, client for local service
examples/COM/states.xls		Example in Excel/VBA, client for local service
examples/COM/temper.vbs		Example in VB, client for remote service
examples/COM/xmlrpc.vbs
examples/JABBER/jabclient.pl
examples/JABBER/jabserver.pl
examples/MQ/mqclient.pl
examples/MQ/mqserver.pl
examples/My/Chat.pm		Module with Chat server implementation 
examples/My/Examples.pm		Module with Examples backend
examples/My/Parameters.pm	Module with Paramaters backend
examples/My/PersistentIterator.pm	Module with Persistent Iterator backend
examples/My/PingPong.pm		Module with PingPong backend
examples/My/SessionIterator.pm	Module with Session Iterator backend
examples/SOAP/Transport/HTTP/Daemon/ForkAfterProcessing.pm
examples/SOAP/Transport/HTTP/Daemon/ForkOnAccept.pm
examples/SOAP/simple1.pl	Example for SOAP interface
examples/SOAP/simple2.pl	Example for SOAP interface
examples/SOAP/simple3.pl	Example for SOAP interface
examples/UDDI/inquire1.pl	Example for UDDI inquire interface
examples/UDDI/publish1.pl	Example for UDDI publishing interface
examples/UDDI/simple1.pl	Example for UDDI interface
examples/UDDI/simple2.pl	Example for UDDI interface
examples/UDDI/syntax1.pl	Example for UDDI publishing interface
examples/UDDI/syntax2.pl	Example for UDDI publishing interface
examples/UDDI/syntax3.pl	Example for UDDI publishing interface
examples/WSDL/dynamic1.pl	Example for WSDL dynamic interface
examples/WSDL/dynamic2.pl	Example for WSDL dynamic interface
examples/WSDL/dynamic3.pl	Example for WSDL dynamic interface
examples/WSDL/dynamic4.pl
examples/WSDL/stub1.pl		Example for WSDL stub interface
examples/WSDL/stub2.pl		Example for WSDL stub interface
examples/WSDL/stub3.pl		Example for WSDL stub interface
examples/XML/customxml.pl	Example for XML processing (SOAP::Custom::XML)
examples/XMLRPC/mod_xmlrpc.htaccess
examples/XMLRPC/simple1.pl
examples/XMLRPC/xmlrpc.cgi
examples/XMLRPC/xmlrpc.daemon
examples/allclients.pl		Different client implementations
examples/authentication.pl	Example for Basic/Digest server authentication
examples/autoexamples.pl	Script for My::Examples with autodispatching
examples/chat.pl		Client side for Chat implementation 
examples/compress.pl		Example for compression options
examples/cookie.pl		Fortune cookie for you
examples/cookieauth.pl		Example for cookie-based authentication
examples/customschema.pl
examples/forms/style.cgi	Example for form-data parsing, server side
examples/forms/style.html	Example for form-data parsing, client side
examples/fullsearch.pl
examples/getdom.pl
examples/google.pl              Example for Google Web API
examples/inline.daemon
examples/iterator.pl		Example for Session/Persistent iterators
examples/joke.pl
examples/oneliners		Couple of one-line SOAP calls
examples/oo-apache.pl		Example of object interoperability
examples/parametersbyname.pl	Example for passing parameters-by-name 
examples/pingpong.pl		Example for local/remote access to the same object
examples/server/Apache.pm	Module for SOAP server, mod_perl implementation
examples/server/mod_soap.htaccess	.htaccess file, configuration for mod_soap
examples/server/soap.asp	SOAP server, ASP/VBScript implementation
examples/server/soap.cgi	SOAP server, CGI implementation
examples/server/soap.daemon	SOAP server, daemon implementation
examples/server/soap.daemon.forkafterprocessing	SOAP server, forking daemon implementation
examples/server/soap.daemon.forkonaccept	SOAP server, forking daemon implementation
examples/server/soap.fcgi
examples/server/soap.io		SOAP server, IO implementation
examples/server/soap.jabber
examples/server/soap.mod_cgi	SOAP server, Apache::Registry implementation
examples/server/soap.mq
examples/server/soap.pop3	SOAP server, POP3 implementation
examples/server/soap.tcp	SOAP server, TCP implementation
examples/server/soap.vbs	SOAP server, VB/Daemon implementation
examples/server/soap_perl.asp	SOAP server, ASP/PerlScript implementation
examples/soapmark.pl		Simple test for different implementations
examples/soapsmtp.pl		Example for SMTP/sendmail message sending
examples/tcpclient.pl		Simple test for local TCP client
examples/terraserver.pl
examples/weblog.pl
lib/Apache/SOAP.pm		mod_soap module
lib/Apache/XMLRPC/Lite.pm
lib/IO/SessionData.pm
lib/IO/SessionSet.pm
lib/SOAP/Lite.pm		Main SOAP::Lite module
lib/SOAP/Test.pm		Simple test framework
lib/SOAP/Transport/FTP.pm	FTP transport, client 
lib/SOAP/Transport/HTTP.pm	HTTP transport, client and server
lib/SOAP/Transport/IO.pm	IO transport, client
lib/SOAP/Transport/JABBER.pm
lib/SOAP/Transport/LOCAL.pm	LOCAL transport, client and server
lib/SOAP/Transport/MAILTO.pm	SMTP/sendmail transport, client
lib/SOAP/Transport/MQ.pm
lib/SOAP/Transport/POP3.pm	POP3 transport, server
lib/SOAP/Transport/TCP.pm	TCP transport, client and server
lib/UDDI/Lite.pm		Main UDDI::Lite module
lib/XML/Parser/Lite.pm
lib/XMLRPC/Lite.pm
lib/XMLRPC/Test.pm
lib/XMLRPC/Transport/HTTP.pm
lib/XMLRPC/Transport/POP3.pm
lib/XMLRPC/Transport/TCP.pm
t/01-core.t
t/02-payload.t
t/03-server.t
t/04-attach.t
t/05-customxml.t
t/06-modules.t
t/07-xmlrpc_payload.t
t/08-schema.t
t/11-cgi.t
t/12-cgi_https.t
t/13-mod_perl.t
t/14-cgi_apache.t
t/15-daemon.t
t/16-tcp.t
t/17-mod_soap.t
t/19-apachesoap.t
t/21-public.t
t/22-interop_apache.t
t/23-ppm.t
t/24-wsdl.t
t/25-uddi.t
t/26-xmlrpc.t
t/27-xmlparserlite.t
t/28-uddi_search.t
t/29-uddi_publishing.t
t/36-leaks.t
t/37-mod_xmlrpc.t
t/TEST.pl
