=head1 NAME

XML::LibXML::Namespace - A Namespace Class to hold namespace nodes

=head1 synopsis

 use XML::LibXML

 my $ns = XML::LibXML::Namespace->new($nsURI);
 print $ns->getName()
 print $ns->name()
 print $ns->prefix()
 $localname = $ns->getLocalName()
 print $ns->getData()
 print $ns->getValue()
 print $ns->value()
 print $ns->uri()
 $known_uri = $ns->getNamespaceURI()
 $known_prefix = $ns->getPredix()


=head1 DESCRIPTION




Namespace nodes are returned by both
$element->findnodes('namespace::foo') or by
$node->getNamespaces().





The namespace node API is not part of any current DOM
API, and so it is quite minimal. It should be noted
that namespace nodes are B<not> a sub class of
XML::LibXML::Node, however Namespace nodes act a lot
like attribute nodes, and similarly named methods will
return what you would expect if you treated the
namespace node as an attribute.




=head2 Methods

=over 4

=item B<new>




Creates a new Namespace node. Note that this is
not a 'node' as an attribute or an element
node. Therefore you can't do call all
XML::LibXML::Node Functions. All functions
available for this node are listed below.





optionally you can pass the prefix to the
namespace constructor. If this second parameter is
ommited you will create a so called default
namespace. Note, the newly created namespace is
not bound to any docuement or node, therefore you
should not expect it to be available in an
existing document.




=item B<getName>




Returns "xmlns:prefix", where prefix is the prefix
for this namespace.




=item B<name>




Alias for getName()




=item B<prefix>




Returns the prefix bound to this namespace declaration.




=item B<getLocalName>




Alias for prefix()




=item B<getData>




Returns the URI of the namespace.




=item B<getValue>




Alias for getData()




=item B<value>




Alias for getData()




=item B<uri>




Alias for getData()




=item B<getNamespaceURI>




Returns the string "http://www.w3.org/2000/xmlns/"




=item B<getPrefix>




Returns the string "xmlns"






=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Matt Sergeant, Christian Glahn

=head1 VERSION

1.53

